---
title: Cancer Season
date: 2019-06-21 11:15:00 Z
permalink: "/cancer/"
published: false
tags:
- cancer
---

Today is the summer solstice, when the sun enters Cancer and we begin a new phase in this year’s journey. Spring was for relearning self-awareness, reevaluating our needs and how we fit in. Summer is for integrating that newly rediscovered sense of self with our environment, which can be scary, because in order to successfully do so we need to share ourselves with others. And to share ourselves means risking rejection.

Cancer season is one big lesson in growing up: moments of disappointment and losses of innocence which hopefully eventually feel empowering in that, well, if no one actually truly knows what they’re doing then that is all the more reason to trust yourself. In order to build an unshakeable personal foundation—a home within ourselves that we can come back to—we’re going to have to experience some level of trial and error. But all these risks come with the intention that maybe by the end of it we can find safety for ourselves. Maybe we can make safety for other people. That’s what Cancer ultimately seeks: an intrinsic knowledge that, no matter what, you have somewhere to go home to.

Being a Cancer myself, the themes of Cancer season have always been consistently at the forefront of my life. The pain of growing up, of having to move on and let go has always been something I’ve felt with alarming intensity. I’d often find myself desperately trying to avoid any situation in which I felt even slightly emotionally vulnerable, because to attach myself to something meant I was at risk of losing it. And I am terrified of allowing myself to pour my heart into something that I have no guarantee will stay, or do the same for me. 

*Call Me By Your Name* is a movie that comes to mind when I think of Cancer season. Some of my friends argued that nothing really happens to Elio—that he’s just a kid with a perfect life who gets to have a beautiful love affair—but I thought it was devastating. There’s [the scene that made everyone wish Michael Stuhlbarg was their dad](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.google.com/url?q%3Dhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v%253D20jgXpDF8ao%26amp;sa%3DD%26amp;ust%3D1561133352376000&sa=D&ust=1561133352381000&usg=AFQjCNFnfNYgMUMkQ95CCoOb_fXarZSe5Q), there’s Oliver getting engaged to a woman. We are given reason to have faith that Elio will not have to live a closeted life, but it doesn’t come without grief for the lives that Mr. Perlman and Oliver—and so many more— could not live.

The fact of any beautiful love affair is painful, too, because an ending is built in. Maybe that’s less sad to my friends now because you forget as you get older that you don’t think of your first love as your first love *as it’s happening*; you think it’s your last, your only. Or you might know somewhere that it’s just the first, and successfully force a state of denial, but even then, you know it will haunt every love to come. That growing pain is most felt when Elio is crying in the car with his mom, silent, or staring into the fireplace at the end, silent, because what is there to say? What do you make of a love that ends because it cannot exist in the real world, and not because anyone is clearly to blame? How do you make room for new memories without betraying yourself or the other person? How could those new memories ever compare? I’m reminded of a part in Rachel Cusk’s book, *Transit*, when the narrator recalls a conversation about being overtaken by a painting in a museum: “Like love, I said, being understood creates the fear that you will never be understood again. But there had been other paintings, I said, before and since, that had moved me just as deeply.”

This is what I wanted to tell Elio at the very end, when he looked into the camera and I snapped back into my own body and self. That made me think of the end of the movie *Magnolia*, too, when Melora makes eye contact with us and then smiles—maybe to punctuate a movie so concerned with coincidences and connections, or tell us she’s okay, or to tell us we’re okay.

But when it’s happening to you, such perspective is inaccessible, and can’t be forced. There’s nothing to *do* about growing pains except sit in them. But the temptation with pain is to go, *How do I fix this? Or stop this?* It sets off an alarm in your body that tells you you must *do something*, but sometimes all you have to do is process. How do you know when that’s the case, though? How do you distinguish the pain you need to act on from the pain you just need to cycle through? I often feel so much better the moment I realize there’s nothing to solve; that I am doing what I need to just by voicing these feelings in the moment, to a friend, so I wouldn’t be alone with them. Or sometimes it’s about finding another, non-verbal mode of expression, or a book, movie, or song that mirrors and validates my experience. Seeing your experience outside of yourself also allows you to see a future-you who will eventually be less burdened by these initial pangs of sorrow. They help to glimpse a time when, beyond high school or college or your immediate surroundings, your life will be graced with people whom you’ll trust without having to think about it. You’ll have already tried being vulnerable in enough of the wrong places, with enough of the wrong people. You’ll have seen yourself well enough to know if another person is really seeing you, too.

And that’s really what Cancer is all about: having an anchor keeping you tethered. Having enough security in yourself to navigate life in a way that feels easy and natural, without walls or barriers. Cancer season reminds us to allow ourselves to feel the full scope of our emotions without fear or judgement, knowing that to allow ourselves that kindness is to truly know what it is to live authentically.